The Project Gutenberg eBook of Pink Ears, by Murray Leinster

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Pink Ears

Author: Murray Leinster

Release Date: September 28, 2021 [eBook #66387]

Language: English

Produced by: Roger Frank and Sue Clark

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PINK EARS ***


                              PINK EARS

                          by Murray Leinster




                                  I


The Stratford is a hotel for men only, and has the air of quiet
seclusion that usually is associated with a conservative club. The
lobby is small and far from ornate. The smoking-room is large and
comfortable. The dining-room is low-ceilinged and quaint,—a place
where one can smoke comfortably,—and the kitchen produces viands that
are worth a special trip to taste. Altogether, the Stratford is a
place for those who want comfort, quiet, and the best of everything.

James Craig, from his air of well-being, had enjoyed it to the full.
An hour before, he had arisen from his table with that sensation of
internal comfort that can come only from a well-ordered and
well-cooked meal. He had chosen a cigar with discrimination, and
lighted it with care. He had spent possibly twenty minutes or more in
the smoking-room, idling over his newspaper in comfortable repletion,
and then had scribbled a note at a writing-desk. With the methodical
air of one to whom life is an excuse for the perpetration of
systematic actions, he drew out a small notebook and extracted a
stamp. He affixed the stamp and made a note in the book. It read:

  Postage on letter to firm       $ .02

The note was just beneath three others:

  Dinner                          $3.45
  Tip                               .25
  Cigar                             .25

He reached toward a button to summon a bell-boy, and then changed his
mind. It was almost possible to read his thoughts by his actions. He
glanced out of the window nearby, and saw the last golden rays of the
evening sun striking upon street and passersby. One who watched him
would have guessed at his mental processes so:—

“I’ll have a bell-boy mail this.... No.... This is a beautiful day....
A walk after dinner will do me good.... I’ll stroll out and mail it,
or stroll out, anyway....”

He tucked the envelope carefully in his pocket, rose, and sauntered
out of the doorway. He moved slowly, carelessly, idling with the
relish of a man who finds little time to idle.

He was gone for less than ten minutes altogether. When he came back in
the door and passed through the lobby his expression had grown subtly
more content. The ten-minutes’ exercise had “shaken down” his dinner,
his cigar had proved all that the brand warranted, and he was at peace
with the world. As he made his way into the elevator he was even
humming a little.

“Three,” he commented, as the car shot upward. “By the way, is there a
good show in town tonight?”

“Yessuh, Ah reg’n so. Dey usual’ is. Y’might ax at de desk.”

The elevator-door clanged open at the third floor and he went out. The
elevator-boy saw him fitting a key into the lock of his room. He was
still humming. The elevator-door shut, and the cage dropped to the
lobby floor again.

“Gosh,” said the elevator-boy to his _confrére_, the chief bell-hop.
“Dem trabelin’ men sho’ has it easy. Dey goes to de shows an’ jes’
chahges it in d’ expense account. Y’ bettuh tote out half a pint. Dis
gen’leman in three-eighty looks lak he mought be intrusted.”

The chief bell-hop rose.

“Bress Gawd fo’ Prohibition,” he commented piously. “Ef t’wasn’t fo’
de law, us hotel-help would hab t’ live on ouah tips.”

He sauntered into a small private closet and a little later stepped
briskly up the stairs. It was certainly not more than two minutes from
the time the elevator-boy saw Craig unlock the door, humming a little,
to the time the bell-hop knocked softly. But where the elevator-boy
carried away an impression of carefree contentment and casual cheer,
the bell-hop straightened involuntarily when he heard a voice from
within.

“Come in!”

The voice was a harsh croak, a rasping gasp, metallic and unhuman. The
bell-hop pushed open the door cautiously and peered in. The room
looked as if a whirlwind had struck it. Sheets, rugs, pillow-cases
were thrown helter-skelter about the place, and at the moment James
Craig was on his knees before a suit-case. Where he had looked
carefree and at peace with the world, he now looked ghastly. His face
was a pasty, chalky white. His eyes seemed to have sunk into his head,
and they stared at the bell-hop with a strange deadness.

“I’ve been robbed!” he croaked harshly. “I’ve been robbed!”

The bell-hop ducked instinctively.

“Bress Gawd!” he gasped. “Y’ don’ mean it!”

A choked sob burst from the throat of the chalky-faced man.

“I’ve been robbed!” he repeated in a certain strange calm. Then he
sobbed again, his whole body writhing with the sound. “My God! Eighty
thousand dollars!”

The bell-hop jumped a foot in the air at mention of that sum and
departed swiftly. The result of his flight was seen a moment later in
a pale and worried desk-clerk who came hurriedly into the room. Craig
was moving dumbly about, looking hopelessly here, there—everywhere.

“You—you’ve been robbed, sir?”

“Eighty thousand dollars!” Craig seemed stunned by the calamity. “I’m
ruined! Ruined! Eighty thousand dollars!”

He sat down suddenly in a chair and stared before him with lack-lustre
eyes. The desk-clerk, alarmed as he was for the reputation of the
house, could not but feel sympathy for the man who had changed so
absolutely in so few minutes. His very lips were gray. His eyes seemed
to have retreated deep into his skull. His voice was a pitiable parody
of a living man’s voice. It was dead, harsh, lifeless.

“Carrying bonds from New Orleans to New York,” he said dully. “Nobody
knew I had ’em. Can’t sleep on trains, and stopped over here to have a
night’s rest. I went out for dinner.... The bonds are gone.”

“I’ll send for the police,” the desk-clerk assured him. “We’ve a
splendid detective force here. If anybody could find them, Jamison
can.”

Craig’s fingers unclenched and he automatically began to look through
the articles in his suit-case again, in the utterly forlorn hope that
he might yet be mistaken, and might yet find the bonds.

“Eighty thousand dollars!” he said apathetically. “I’m ruined! They’ll
suspect me, even me, of stealing them. And nobody knew I had them!” He
groaned. “Nobody knew I had them!”

The clerk slipped from the room and telephoned frantically, while he
gave orders that assured the continued presence of every one of the
hotel employees and a careful note of every guest who left the place.
He would be able to give the police a list of every man who slipped
out, and would be able to produce all the hotel help. It was quick and
efficient work. But once that was done, the desk-clerk allowed himself
to think sympathetically of the man in the room above. He had seen
Craig stroll into the elevator, pleasantly flushed by his dinner and
walk. And now that chalk-white man with sunken eyes, croaking of ruin
and disgrace....

The desk-clerk shook his head in genuine regret.




                                 II


A rather shabby young man with a cigarette dangling from his mouth
strolled into the room without the formality of knocking. He nodded
ungraciously at Craig.

“I’m Jamison,” he said gloomily. “Police Headquarters. They sent me
down to find out about this robbery. What’s up?”

Craig, no more than the wreck of the debonair man of a half hour
before, told his story, with his eyes glowing strangely from sunken
sockets. Jamison listened from a comfortable chair, gazing at the
ceiling.

“Y’ went out?” he queried, when Craig had finished. “Why didn’t you
leave the bonds in the hotel safe?”

“I should have,” groaned Craig wretchedly. “But no one knew I had them
with me. Only the president of my firm and myself knew I had them. We
thought that if I just went on up to New York quite casually, as if on
an ordinary business trip, there’d be no suspicion of my having
anything valuable with me. God! If I’d only known!”

“How long were you gone?” asked Jamison, fishing in his baggy pockets
for tobacco and paper to roll another cigarette.

“I don’t know,” said Craig despairingly. “I finished my dinner, wrote
a note, and went out to the street. I asked the way to the nearest
mail box and dropped my letter in. Then I came back, came up to my
room, and the bonds were gone! I’m ruined! I’ll be suspected of
stealing them myself!”

Jamison yawned and rolled a cigarette with one hand, watching his own
fingers with the absorbed attention of one who has but recently
acquired the feat.

“Well,” he said in a moment, after licking the paper. “I guess we’ve
got a job ahead of us. What train did you come in on?”

“I got in about four-thirty.”

“That’s number twenty-seven,” commented Jamison. “You came to the
hotel right away?”

“Yes. I registered, washed up, had my dinner, and——”

“Bonds negotiable?” queried Jamison uninterestedly. “What issue and
numbers?”

Craig told him.

“N.O. and W. 4½s,” Jamison yawned again. “Twenty-nine four
eighty-seven to twenty-nine five twenty-two. All right.”

Craig rose as Jamison stood up negligently. Craig looked like a wreck.
His face was a sickly white and his eyes burned from cavernous depths.
His lips were trembling a little.

“They’re going to suspect me!” he said desperately. “Only one man
beside myself knew I had those bonds. They’re gone—stolen. Man, you’ve
got to clear me! Search me, search the room! Put me under arrest. Do
something!”

“I’ll put you under surveillance,” said Jamison, “if you like.” He
yawned. “Just to prove to your firm you didn’t hide out on ’em. I’ll
send a man up in a little while.”

“I can give an account of every movement since I’ve been in the city,”
said Craig suddenly. “Look here. I keep an account of all my
expenditures. You can check me up. Here’s my dinner. Here’s the tip,
and a postage-stamp on the letter to my firm. Here’s a magazine I
bought.... You can check up the time on every one of them. You can
trace my movements that way.”

Jamison glanced uninterestedly at the open page held in Craig’s
shaking hand.

“Don’t get so excited,” he said grouchily. “Don’t y’ know that if you
had swiped the stuff you’d have faked a book like that?”

He eyed the page for a moment and sat down again, as if a new chain of
questioning had occurred to him.

“Say, do you often come through here?” he inquired.

“Yes, on an average of once a month.”

“Stop at this hotel?”

“Yes....” Craig began to look hopeful. “Do you suppose some one of the
help—”

“How big a package were the bonds?”

“There were eighty of them. They’d make quite a wad of paper.”

“Make a man’s pocket bulge out?”

“Surely.”

“The hotel-clerk kept all the employees waiting,” observed Jamison.
“I’ll take a look. Was your place much messed up when you got back?”

“Practically like this. I left the bonds in my suit-case. When I
opened the door I saw the place was torn upside down, everything
thrown all about.”

“You’d left your suit-case open?” queried Jamison. “They’d look in
there first....”

“The bonds were under a shirt—in the folds of a shirt. At first glance
they wouldn’t seem to be there.”

Jamison puffed thoughtfully for a moment.

“Ever use your firm’s stationery here?”

“Yes. Why?”

“Just thinking,” said Jamison. “You see, if you dropped a letter-head
in a waste-basket, whoever cleaned up the room might connect you
up.... Say, your firm is a bank. You come through every so often.
Suppose you leave a letter-head. Banks sometimes send currency from
one place to another by messenger. A chambermaid or bell-hop might
notice....”

Craig’s face brightened. Jamison wore an air of innocent pride.

“You have to think of those things,” he said modestly. “I’ll tell you.
You go down and get the desk-clerk and a cop. Tell the desk-clerk to
have the darkies that clean up this floor come in, one by one. Come
back with the clerk and the cop.”

Craig obediently started for the door, hesitated, glanced back, and
then went out. Jamison allowed himself the luxury of a grunt when the
door closed, and the expression of innocent pride vanished utterly
from his features, leaving them somewhat bored and entirely disgusted.

“Sloppy work,” he commented gloomily, to himself. “I wonder where he
keeps his shaving-soap. That’s the answer, ten to one.”

He began to rummage in Craig’s suit-case.




                                 III


When Craig pushed open the door again with the room-clerk and the
policeman, Jamison was standing by the bureau, where there was a
light. He seemed to be examining something in his hand. Craig looked
vastly more hopeful, though his face was still a deadly white and his
eyes were still sunken deeply into his head.

“This officer,” he announced, “saw me when I went out to mail that
letter. Tell him about it, Officer.”

“I saw him mail a letter, sorr,” said the policeman. “I was standin’
by the mail-box whin he come up. He axed me for a light, sorr, and
lighted his cigar with it. It had gone out. Thin he put his letter in
the box. ’Twas a small letter, sorr, in one av th’ hotel envelopes.”

Jamison nodded uninterestedly.

“Oh, all right,” he said wearily. “Nobody thought he mailed ’em away
and then called for the police to find ’em. Say,” he turned to the
hotel-clerk, “when did you open up this part of the hotel?”

“About six months ago.”

“New help?” queried Jamison. He sank into a chair and yawned.

“Partly,” said the clerk. “The chambermaid’s been here a long time.
The cleaner for this floor is Sam Whitehouse. You know him, I think.
He’s a pretty good negro. Been fined a couple of times for shooting
craps, but that’s all.”

Jamison sat up.

“Sam Whitehouse!” he said with more energy than he had displayed
before. “Why didn’t you say so before? Look here.”

He took an envelope from his pocket and scribbled a few words on the
back, then handed it to the officer.

“You can attend to it better than anyone else,” he commented. “See to
it, won’t you? I’ll wait here.”

He lay back in his chair and frowned at the clerk.

“I wish you hotel people wouldn’t hire known criminals,” he
complained. “They’re always making trouble. If there’s a smart darky
in the city, it’s that same Sam. He’d steal the brass plate off a
coffin—and get away with it. I guess we’ll have him now, though....”

He rolled a cigarette and puffed gloomily on it until the policeman
returned.

“Got him, sorr. An’ he had the bonds. A thick wad av thim, sorr.”

Craig sprang to his feet.

“What!”

“He’s got the bonds,” said Jamison wearily. “You see, I guessed right
when I said you’d probably left a letter-head or something. He just
waited for you to come back to town and went through your room.”

Craig’s face was a puzzle for an instant, and then he sank back into
his seat and mopped his forehead, patting it with his handkerchief.

“Thank God!” he gasped.

“Well, we’re through,” said Jamison. “Not much of a case, this. You
can get your bonds in the morning at the police station.”

He strolled out the door with the policeman and room-clerk. Craig
watched the door close behind them and sprang to his feet in a
noiseless bound.

“Good God!” he muttered, desperately. “How—how—”

In a catlike leap he sprang to the cheap bureau in the room. With a
jerk he pulled out an empty drawer. He stared at it for an instant,
and then brought it down with a crash upon his knee, splintering the
bottom utterly. The real bottom of the drawer came out in fragments,
and a layer of veneer that fitted neatly over it was twisted and
wrecked as well. And tumbling out upon the floor were the eighty
neatly engraved bonds, fallen from their hiding place in the neatly
contrived false bottom, just where Craig had placed them two hours
before. And yet—

“I thought so,” said Jamison’s voice wearily. “It was a sloppy job.”

There was an infinitely bright flash and the room was full of smoke.




                                 IV


“You’re mugged, now,” observed Jamison. “I guess a flash-light picture
will go well in court....”

“His ears were pink,” explained Jamison, his tone indicating the
ultimate of boredom. “His ears were nice and pink. That gave him
away.”

Craig was huddled in a chair in the police-station. The big policeman
stood guard beside him and the desk-sergeant listened sympathetically
to Jamison’s tale of woe.

“My Gawd,” said Jamison disgustedly. “I haven’t seen a really neat job
in so long you’d think everybody with brains had turned honest. Look
at him, now. He passed through here once a month for six months or so,
carrying stuff from New Orleans to New York and back. He was a regular
at the hotel, and the clerk always gave him the same room, and he saw
it had one o’ these cheap made-by-the-million bureaus in it. And he
set to work from that!”

He flung away his perpetual cigarette and grunted.

“He took some measurements of the inside, an’ got a piece of veneer to
fit the bottom of one of the drawers. Then, today, he climbed off the
train, went to the hotel, took his bonds and laid ’em, neat, in the
drawer, trimmed up his veneer to fit exactly, and glued it down on top
of ’em. To look at it, it was a perfectly empty drawer, and nobody
looks for secret compartments in hotel furniture, particularly of the
made-by-the-million kind. He wandered downstairs, ate his dinner while
the glue dried, smoked a cigar, and went back up to his room and
yelled bloody murder. He thought he’d get away with the story that his
room had been robbed while he was out!”

The desk-sergeant shook his head sympathetically.

“Tst! Tst!...” he said commiseratingly.

“He had a good make-up on” commented Jamison morosely. “He looked like
the wrath o’ Gawd, and he played his part pretty well, but he overdid
it, of course. Showed me a notebook to check up his movements by—and
he’d made an entry in it while there was a bit of glue on his finger.
The smudge told a lot, since I’d already made up my mind he was tryin’
to steal from himself. Say”—he addressed the prisoner—“were you
thinkin’ maybe your firm would prosecute you for the theft and be
unable to get a conviction for lack of evidence?”

The prisoner seemed to shrink a little farther into himself, but did
not reply.

“That was it,” said Jamison gloomily. “Once he’d been tried, you know,
they couldn’t have done a thing no matter how much proof they got that
he had recovered and was selling the bonds later.”

“He gave himself away, you say?” the desk-sergeant asked.

“Dead away,” admitted Jamison depressedly. “I knew he’d done it, the
minute I first saw him, and if that wasn’t enough, I sent him out to
get the room-clerk and he stopped in the doorway to take a last look
straight where he’d put the bonds. And the first place he looked when
he came back was the same spot. It was a shame to pinch him, he was so
innocent.”

“But can you jug him?” queried the desk-sergeant.

“Jug him? I could hang him,” asserted Jamison in the profoundest
disgust. “I got Murphy to frame a story that he’d found the bonds on a
bell-hop, and when Murphy—”

“Me name’s O’Ryan, sorr,” interrupted the policeman.

“When O’Ryan sprang the plant and we went out, Craig went straight to
look at the bonds and make sure they were safe. All I had to do was
take Murph—O’Ryan by the hand and wait two minutes and then swing in
the door and pull a flash-pistol. I had Craig neatly mugged with the
bonds in his hands. Could I jug him, I ask you?”

“You could,” agreed the desk-sergeant. “But you keep saying all along
that you knew he’d hidden out the bonds. How’d you know that?”

“His ears were pink,” said Jamison wearily. “If you saw a man who’d
just been robbed of a fortune, you’d expect him to look sort of pale,
wouldn’t you?”

“I would that.”

“This man was made up pretty good. His eyes looked sunk way back in
his head, and he was pale to just the right extent. He put over the
voice stuff pretty well, too. He’d made himself up with number one
dead white, that he carried in his shaving-soap tube, but he’d left
his ears pink, a nice, healthy pink. And I had only to take one look
to know what was up.”

“’Twas careless,” said the desk-sergeant.

“Careless? It was criminal!” Jamison seemed to be mourning over the
decay of crime. “I haven’t had a real good case in a coon’s age.
Crooks haven’t got brains any more.”

And he shook his head in the most abysmal gloom.


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the April, 1922
issue of _The Black Mask_ magazine.]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PINK EARS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
